oh no it's it's a nice to have the first
lady and to have mrs. Carrie here and in
the hall and I'm just going to take a
few minutes to go over notes here and
then we will start I think in about 10
minutes I will give you I think a two
minute cue that is prior to when the
networks will go on the air the networks
will go on at 8 o'clock straight up st.
Louis time they will take a minute and a
half to say whatever it is those people
and the networks have to say and then we
will begin I'll have a few introductory
remarks concluding with the introduction
of those two who are here to debate
tonight the two candidates they will
come in I believe from these entrances
and obviously a round of applause and
then we'll get down to the business of
the evening and if you might take just
these 10 minutes since none of you know
which of you will be asking questions
you might take these a couple of minutes
just to look at your question again make
sure you've got it in your mind make
sure you can read it well and and we'll
be under way I think as I say this will
be a very instructive evening and I once
again want to very personally thank all
of you having gone through all of the
questions that you brought in I want to
thank you for taking this as seriously
as you did would that we could get more
of these questions on the air if the two
candidates want to hang around you know
through the night and do all the kisses
but I think it will not happen but I
appreciate you doing this and you have
my sincere thank you
that concludes the pregame warm-up show
here thank you very much for all all
being here this evening and a special
thanks from the Commission to the town
meeting participants it's been an honor
to have all of you here today and and we
thank you very much I hope everyone
enjoys the evening good evening from the
Fieldhouse at Washington University in
st. Louis I'm Charles Gibson of ABC News
and Good Morning America I welcome you
to the second of the 2004 presidential
debates between President George W Bush
the Republican nominee and Senator John
Kerry the Democratic nominee the debates
are sponsored by the Commission on
Presidential Debates tonight's format is
going to be a bit different we have
assembled a town hall meeting we're in
the show-me-state as everyone knows
Missouri to be so Missouri residents
will ask the questions these 140
citizens were identified by the Gallup
Organization as not yet committed in
this election now earlier today each
audience member gave me two questions on
cards like this one they'd like to ask
of the president the other they'd like
to ask the senator I have selected the
questions to be asked and the order no
one has seen the final list of questions
but me
certainly not the candidates no audience
member knows if he or she will be called
upon audience microphones will be turned
off after a question is asked audience
members will address their question to a
specific candidate he'll have two
minutes to answer the other candidate
will have a minute and a half for
rebuttal and I have the option of
extending discussion for one minute to
be divided equally between the two men
all subjects are open for discussion and
you probably know the light system by
now green light at 30 seconds yellow at
15 red at five and flashing red means
you're done those are the candidates
rules I will hold the candidates to the
time limits forcefully but politely I
hope and now please join me in welcoming
with great respect
President Bush and Senator Kerry
gentlemen to the business at hand of the
first question is for Senator Kerry and
it will come for sure from Cheryl Otis
who is right behind me workers and
family and friends I asked the ones who
said they were not voting for you why
they said that you were too wishy-washy
do you have a reply for them yes I
certainly do but let me just first Earl
if you will I want to thank Charlie for
moderating I want to thank Washington
University for hosting us here this
evening mr. presidents could be with you
again this evening sir
Cheryl the president didn't find weapons
of mass destruction in Iraq so he's
really turned his campaign into a weapon
of mass deception and the result is that
you've been bombarded with
advertisements suggesting that I've
changed the position on this or that or
the other now the three things they try
to say I've changed position or another
Patriot Act I haven't I support it I
just don't like the way John Ashcroft
has applied it and we're gonna change a
few things the chairman of the
Republican Party thinks we ought to
change a few things No Child Left Behind
Act I voted for it I supported I support
the goals but the president is
underfunded it by 28 billion dollars
right here in st. Louis
you've played off 350 teachers you're a
hundred and fifty excuse me I think it's
little more about 100 million dollars
shy of what you ought to be under the No
Child Left Behind Act to help your
education system here so I complain
about that I've argued that we should
fully fund it president says I've
changed my mind I haven't changed my
mind I'm gonna fully fund it so these
are the differences now the president
has presided over the economy where
we've lost 1.6 million jobs first
president in 72 years to lose jobs I
have a plan to put people back to work
that's not wishy-washy
I'm gonna close the loopholes that
actually encourage companies to go
overseas the president wants to keep
moping that I think I'm right I think
he's wrong
I'm gonna give you a tax cut the
president gave the the top 1% of income
earners in America got 89 billion
dollars last year more than the 80
percent of people who earned $100,000 or
less all put together I think that's
wrong that's not wishy-washy and that's
what I'm fighting for you mr. president
min and a half Charlie thank you thank
our panelists senator thank you I can
thank Washington you as well I can see
why people at your workplace think he
changes positions a lot because he does
he said he voted for the 87 billion
dollars and I voted against it right
before he voted for it that sends a
confusing signal to people he said he
thought Saddam Hussein was a grave
threat and I said it was a mistake to
remove Saddam Hussein from power now I
can see why people think that he changed
his position quite often because he does
you know for a while he was a strong
supporter of getting rid of Saddam
Hussein he saw the wisdom until the
Democrat primary came along and Howard
Dean the anti-war candidate began to
gain on him he changed positions I don't
say you can lead this country in a time
of war in a time of uncertainty if you
change your mind because of politics he
just brought up the tax cut you remember
there we increased that child credit by
$1,000 reduce the marriage penalty
create a ten percent tax bracket for the
lower income Americans that's right at
the middle class he voted against it and
yet he tells you he's for a middle class
tax cut it's you've got to be consistent
when you're the president there's a lot
of pressures and you got to be firm and
consistent mr. president I would follow
up but we have a series of questions on
Iraq and so I will turn to the next
questioner the question for President
Bush and the questioner is Robin Dahl
can you get a microphone Robin I'm sorry
mr. president yesterday in a statement
you admitted that Iraq did not have
weapons of mass destruction but
justified the invasion by stating I
quote he retained the knowledge the
materials the means and the intent to
produce weapons of mass destruction and
could have passed this knowledge to our
terrorist enemies do you sincerely
believe this to be a reasonable
justification for invasion
when this statement applies to so many
other countries including North Korea
each situation is different Robin and
obviously we hope that diplomacy works
before you ever use force the hardest
decision of president makes is ever to
use force after 9/11 we had to look at
the world differently after 9/11 we had
to recognize that when we saw a threat
we must take it seriously before it
comes to hurt us in the old days we'd
see a threat and we could deal with it
we felt like it or not but 9/11 changed
it all
I vowed to our countrymen that I would
do everything I could to protect the
American people that's why we're
bringing al Qaeda to justice 75% of them
have been brought to justice that's why
I said to Afghanistan if you Harbor a
terrorist you're just as guilty as a
terrorist and the Taliban is no longer
in power and al Qaeda no longer has a
place to plan and I saw a unique threat
in saddam hussein as did my opponent
because we thought he had weapons of
mass destruction and the unique threat
was that he could give weapons of mass
destruction to a thai organization like
al qaeda and the harm they inflicted on
us with airplanes would be multiplied
greatly by weapons of mass destruction
and that was a serious serious threat so
i tried diplomacy went to the united
nations but as we learn in the same
report I quoted Saddam Hussein was
gaming the oil-for-food program to get
rid of sanctions he was trying to get
rid of sanctions for a reason he wanted
to restart his weapons programs we all
thought there was weapons there Robin
my opponent thought there was weapons
there that's why he called him a grave
threat
I wasn't happy when we found out there
one weapons and we've got an
intelligence grouped together to figure
out why but Saddam Hussein was a unique
threat and the world is better off
without him in power and my opponent
plans lead me to conclude that Saddam
Hussein was still being power and the
world would be more dangerous thank you
sir
senator Kerry and a half yeah Robin I'm
gonna answer your question I'm also
gonna talk respond to what you asked
Errol at the same time the world is more
dangerous today the world is more
dangerous today because the president
didn't make the right judgments now the
president wishes that I had changed my
mind he wants you to believe that
because he can't come here and tell you
that he's created new jobs for America
he's lost jobs he can't come here and
tell you that he's created healthcare
for Americans because one point what we
get five million Americans have lost
their health care ninety six thousand
right here in Missouri he can't come
here and tell you that he's left no
child behind because he didn't fund No
Child Left Behind so what does he do
he's trying to attack me he wants you to
believe that I can't be President and
he's trying to make you believe it
because he wants you to think I changed
my mind well let me tell you straight up
I've never changed my mind about Iraq
I do believe Saddam Hussein was a threat
always believed it was a threat believed
at 1998 when Clinton was president I
wanted to give Clinton the power to use
force if necessary
but I would have used that force wisely
I would have used that authority wisely
not rush to war without a plan to win
the peace I would have brought our
allies to our side I would have fought
to make certain our troops had everybody
possible to help them win the mission
this president rushed to war pushed our
allies aside and Iran now is more
dangerous and so is North Korea with
nuclear weapons he took his eye off the
ball off of Osama bin Laden
mr. president I do want to follow up on
this on this one because there were
several questions from the audience
along this line go ahead but you go
ahead
you're up remember the last debate my
opponent said that America must pass a
global test before we use force to
protect ourselves that's the kind of
mindset that says sanctions were working
that's the kind of mindset that said
let's keep it up the United Nations and
hope things go well Saddam Hussein was a
threat because he could have given
weapons of mass destruction to
terrorists enemies sanctions were not
working the United Nations was not
effective at removing Saddam Hussein
Serra all of the sanctions was not to
remove Saddam Hussein it was to remove
the weapons of mass destruction and mr.
president just yesterday the dolphin
report told you and the whole world they
worked he didn't have weapons of mass
destruction mr. president that was the
objective and if we'd use smart
diplomacy we could have saved 200
billion dollars and an invasion of Iraq
and right now Osama bin Laden might be
in jail or dead that's the war against
terror we're gonna have another question
now on the subject of Iraq and I'm gonna
turn to Anthony Baldy with a question
for Senator Kerry mr. Baldi
Senator Kerry the u.s. is preparing a
new Iraq government and we will proceed
to withdrawal US troops would you
proceed with the same plans as President
Bush Anthony I would not I have laid out
a different plan because the president's
plan is not working you see that every
night on television there's chaos in
Iraq King Abdullah of Jordan said just
yesterday or the day before you can't
hold elections in Iraq with the chaos
that's going on today Senator Richard
Lugar the Republican chairman of the
Foreign Relations Committee said that
the handling of the reconstruction aid
in Iraq by this administration has been
incompetent those are the Republican
Chairman's words senator Hagel of
Nebraska said that the handling of Iraq
is beyond pitiful beyond embarrassing
it's in the zone of dangerous those are
the words of two republicans respected
both on the Foreign Relations Committee
now I have to tell you I would do
something different I would reach out to
our allies in a way that this president
hasn't he pushed them away time and
again pushed them away at the UN pushed
them away individually two weeks ago
there was a meeting of the North
Atlantic Council which is the political
arm of NATO they discussed the
possibility of a small training unit or
having a total takeover of the training
in Iraq did our administration push for
the total training of Iraq no were they
silent yes
was there an effort to bring all the
allies together around that no because
they've always wanted this to be an
American effort have you know they even
had the Defense Department issue a
memorandum saying don't bother applying
for assistance or for being part of the
reconstruction if you weren't part of
our original coalition now that's not a
good way to build support and reduce the
risk for our troops and make America
safer I'm gonna get the training done
for our troops I'm going to get the
training of Iraqis done faster and I'm
gonna get our allies back to the table
two days ago in the Oval Office I met
with the finance minister from Iraq he
came to see me and he talked about how
optimistic he was and the country was
about heading toward elections think
about it they're going from tyranny to
elections he talked about the
reconstruction efforts that are
beginning to take hold he talked about
the fact that Iraqis loved to be free he
said it was optimistic when he came here
then he turned on the TV and listening
to the political rhetoric and all of a
sudden he was pessimistic this is the
guy who along with others he's taking
great risk for freedom and we need to
stand with him my opponent says he has a
plan sounds familiar because it's called
the bush plan we're gonna train train
troops and we are will have a hundred
twenty-five thousand trained by the end
December we're spending about seven
billion dollars he talks about a grand
idea let's have a summit we're gonna
solve the problem in Iraq by holding a
summit and what is he going to say to
those people that show up to the summit
join me in the wrong war at the wrong
time at the wrong place risk yours risk
your troops in a play in a war you've
called a mistake nobody is going to
follow somebody who doesn't believe we
can succeed and somebody who says the
war where we are as a mistake I know how
these people think I meet with them all
the time I talked to Tony Blair all the
time I talked to Silvio Berlusconi
they're not gonna follow an American
president who says follow me into a
mistake our plan is working we're gonna
make elections in Iraq is gonna be free
and America will be better off for it
follow-up sir yes sir please ladies and
gentlemen the right war was Osama bin
Laden and Afghanistan that was the right
place and the right time was Tora Bora
when we had him cornered in the
mountains now everyone in the world
knows that there were no weapons of mass
destruction that was the reason Congress
gave him the authority to use force not
after excuse to get rid of the regime
now we have to succeed I've always said
that I have been consistent yes we have
to succeed and I have a better plan to
help us do it first of all we didn't
find out he didn't have weapons till we
got there and my opponent thought he had
weapons
and told everybody he thought he had
weapons and secondly it's a fundamental
misunderstanding to say that the war on
terror is only Osama bin Laden the war
on terror is to make sure that these
terrorist organizations do not end up
with weapons of mass destruction that's
what the war on terror is about of
course we're gonna find Osama bin Laden
we've already got 75% of his people and
wanting to hunt for him but this is a
global conflict that requires firm
resolve the next question is for
President Bush and it comes from Nicky
Washington Thank You mr. president
my mother and sister traveled abroad
this summer and when they got back they
talked to us about how shocked they were
at the intensity of aggravation that
other countries had with how we handled
the Iraq situation diplomacy is
obviously something that we have to
really work on what is your plan to to
repair relations with other countries
given the current situation no I
appreciate that
I listen I got a great country I love
our values and I recognize I made some
decisions that have caused people to not
understand the great values of our
country
I remember when Ronald Reagan was the
president he stood on principle somebody
called that stubborn he stood on
principle standing up to the Soviet
Union and we won that conflict yet at
the same time he was very we were very
unpopular in Europe because the
decisions he made I recognized that that
taking Saddam Hussein out was unpopular
but I made the decision because I
thought it was in the right interest of
our security you know I made some
decisions on Israel
that's unpopular I wouldn't deal with
Arafat because I felt like he had let
the former president down and I don't
think he's a the kind of person that can
lead toward a Palestinian state and
people in Europe didn't like that
decision and that was unpopular but it
was the right thing to do I believe
Palestinians ought to have a stake
but I know they need leadership that's
committed to a democracy and freedom
leadership that would be willing to
reject terrorism I made a decision not
to join the International Criminal Court
in The Hague which is where our troops
can be brought to brought in front of a
judge and unaccounted judge I don't
think we ought to join that that was
unpopular and so what I'm telling you is
is that sometimes in this world you make
unpopular decisions because you think
they're right we'll continue to reach
out listen there's 30 nations involved
in Iraq some 40 nations involved in
Afghanistan people love America
sometimes they don't like the decisions
made by America but I don't think you
want a president who tries to become
popular and does the wrong thing you
don't want to join the International
Criminal Court just because it's popular
in certain capitals in Europe senator
Kerry a minute and a half Nikki that's a
question that's been raised by a lot of
people around the country let me address
it but also talk about the weapons the
president just talked about because
every part of the president's answer
just now promises you more of the same
over the next four years presidents
stood right here in this hall four years
ago and he was asked a question by
somebody just like you under what
circumstances would you send people to
war and his answer was with a viable
exit strategy and only with enough
forces to get the job done he didn't do
that he broke that promise we didn't
have enough forces general Shinseki the
army chief of staff told him he is going
to need several hundred thousand and
guess what they retired general Shinseki
for telling him that this president
hasn't listened I went to meet with the
members of the Security Council in the
week before we voted and went to New
York I talked to all of them to find out
how serious they were about really
holding Saddam Hussein accountable I
came away convinced that if we worked at
it if we were ready to work at letting
Hans Blix do his job and thoroughly go
through the inspections that if push
came to shove they'd be there with us
but the president just arbitrarily
brought the hammer down and said nope
sorry time for diplomacy is over we're
going
he rushed to war without a plan to win
the peace ladies and gentlemen he gave
you a speech and told you he'd planned
carefully take every precaution take our
allies with us he didn't he broke his
word I remember sitting in the White
House looking at those generals saying
do you have what you need in this war do
you have what it takes
I remember going down in the basement of
the White House the day we committed our
troops as last resort looking at Tommy
Franks and the generals on the ground
asking him do we have the right plan
with the right troop level and they
looked me in the eye and said yes sir
mr. president of course I listened to
our generals that's what a president
does a president's test a strategy and
relies upon good military people to
execute that strategy you rely on good
military people to execute the military
component of the strategy but winning
the piece is larger than just the
military component general Shinseki had
the wisdom to say you're going to need
several hundred thousand troops to win
the peace military's job is to win the
war president's job is to win the peace
the president did not do what was
necessary didn't bring in enough nations
didn't deliver the help didn't close off
the borders didn't even guard the ammo
dumps and now our kids are being killed
with ammos right out of that done the
next question is for Senator Kerry and
it comes from over here from Randy
Jacobs you'll need a microphone
I ran sponsors terrorism and has
missiles capable of hitting Israel and
southern Europe Iran will have nuclear
weapons in two to three years time in
the event that UN sanctions don't stop
this threat what will you do as
president I don't think you can just
rely on UN sanctions Randi but you're
absolutely correct it is a threat it's a
huge threat and what's interesting is
it's a threat that has grown while the
president has been preoccupied with Iraq
where there wasn't a threat if he'd let
the inspectors do their job and go on we
wouldn't have ten times the numbers of
forces in Iraq that we have in
Afghanistan chasing those Amin bin Laden
meanwhile while Iran is moving towards
nuclear weapons some 37 tons of what
they called yellowcake the stuff they
used to make enriched uranium while
they're doing that North Korea has moved
from one bomb maybe maybe to four to
seven bombs for two years the president
didn't even engage with North Korea did
nothing at all while it was growing more
dangerous despite the warnings of people
like former Secretary of Defense William
Perry who negotiated getting television
cameras and inspectors into that reactor
we were safer before President Bush came
to office now they have the bombs and
were less safe so what do we do we've
got to join with the British and the
French with the Germans who've been
involved in their initiative we've got
to lead the world now to crack down on
proliferation as a whole but the
president's been slow to do that even in
Russia at his pace it's going to take 13
years to reduce and get a hold of all
the loose nuclear material in the former
Soviet Union I've proposed a plan that
can capture it and contain it and clean
it within four years and the president
is moving to the creation of our own
bunker busting nuclear weapon it's very
hard to get other countries to give up
their weapons when you're busy
developing a new one I'm going to lead
the world in the greatest
counter-proliferation effort and if we
have to get tough with Iran believe me
we will get
mr. president been and-a-half that
answer almost made me want a scowl she's
talking about let the inspectors do
their job it's not even dangerous to say
that that's what the doleful report
showed he was deceiving the inspectors
secondly of course we've been involved
with Iran I fully understand the threat
and that's why we're doing what he
suggested we do get the Brits the
Germans and the French to go make it
very clear to the Iranians that if they
expect to be a party to the world to
give up their nuclear ambitions we've
been doing that let me talk about North
Korea it is naive and dangerous to take
a policy that he suggested the other day
which has to had bilateral relations
with North Korea remember he's the
persons accusing me of no Naga acting
multilaterally he now wants to take the
six-party talks we have China North
Korea South Korea Russia Japan and the
United States and undermine him by
having bilateral talks that's what
President Clinton did he had bilateral
talks with the North Korean and guess
what happened he didn't honor the
agreement he was enriching uranium that
is a bad policy of course we're paying
attention to these it's a great question
about Iran that's why in my speech to
the Congress I said there's an axis of
evil Iraq Iran and North Korea and we're
paying attention to it and we're making
progress we're gonna move on mr.
president with the question for you and
it comes from Daniel Farley mr. Farley
mr. president since we continue to
police the world how do you intend to
maintain our military presence without
reinstituting address question thanks
I hear there's rumors on the Internet's
that we're gonna have a draft we're not
going to have a draft period the
all-volunteer army works it works
particularly when we pay our troops well
it works when we make sure they've got
housing like we have done in the last
military budgets and
volunteer army is best suited to fight
the new Wars of the 21st century which
is to be specialized and to find these
people as they hide around the world we
don't need mass armies anymore
one of the things we've done is we've
taken the we're beginning to transform
our military and by that I mean we're
moving troops out of Korea and replacing
them with more effective weapons we
don't need as much manpower on the
Korean Peninsula to keep a deterrent in
Europe we have massed troops as if the
Soviet Union existed and was going to
invade into Europe but those days are
over with and so we're moving troops out
of Europe and replacing it with more
effective equipment so to answer your
question is where we're drawing not from
the world we're drawing manpower so they
can be stationed here in America so
there's less rotation so life is easier
on their families and therefore more
likely to be will be more likely to be
able to keep people in the all-volunteer
army one of the most important things
we're doing in this administration is
transformation there's some really
interesting technologies for example
we're flying an unmanned vehicles that
can send real-time messages back to
stations in the United States that saves
manpower and it saves equipment it also
means that we can target things easier
and move more quickly which means we
need to be lighter and quicker and more
facile and highly trained now forget all
this talk about a draft we're not going
to have a draft as so long as I'm the
president senator Kerry Daniel I don't
support a draft but let me tell you
where the president's policies have put
us the president and this is one of the
reasons why I'm very proud in this race
to have the support of General John
shalikashvili former chairman the Joint
Chiefs of Staff Admiral William kraut
Verma chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff General Tony McPeake who ran the
air war for the president's father did a
brilliant job supporting me general West
Clark who won the war in Kosovo
supporting me because they all aren't
general
bakka who was the head of the National
Guard supporting me why because they
understand that our military is
overextended under the West President
our guard and reserves have been turned
into almost active-duty you got people
doing two and three rotations you've got
stop-loss policies so people can't get
out when they were supposed to you've
got a backdoor draft right now and a lot
of our military are underpaid they these
are families that get hurt it hurts the
middle class it hurts
communities because these are our first
responders and they're called up in the
rover they're not over here now I'm
gonna add 40,000 active duty forces to
the military and I'm gonna I'm gonna
make people feel good about being safe
in our military and not over extended
because I'm gonna run a foreign policy
that actually does what President Reagan
did and President Eisenhower did and
others we're gonna build alliances we're
not gonna go unilaterally we're not
gonna go alone like this president did
mr. Tony Blair we're going alone tell
Serbia Berlusconi we're going alone tell
Alexander Kwasniewski of Poland we're
going alone got 30 countries there it
denigrates an alliance to say we're
going alone to discount their sacrifices
you cannot lead an alliance if you say
you know you're going alone and people
listen they're sacrificing with us
senator mr. president countries are
leaving the coalition not joining eight
countries have left it if Missouri just
given the number of people from Missouri
are in the military over there today
were a country it would be the third
largest country in the coalition behind
Great Britain in the United States
that's not a grand coalition 90 percent
of the casualties are American ninety
percent of the costs are coming out of
your pockets I could do a better job my
plan does a better job and that's why
I'll be a better commander-in-chief the
next question Senator Kerry is for you
and it comes from an
Ronson who I believe is over in this
area Senator Kerry we have been
fortunate that there have been no
further terrorist attacks on American
soil since 9/11 why do you think this is
and if they elected what will you do to
assure our safety thank you very much
and I've asked in my security briefings
why that is and I can't go into all the
answers etc but let me say this to you
this president and his administration
have told you and all of us it's not a
question of when it's a question of
excuse me not question of if it's a
question of when we've been told that
the wind I can't tell you between the
World Trade Center bombing and what was
it 1993 or so and the next time was five
years seven years these people wait
they'll plan they plot I agree with the
president that we have to go after them
and get them wherever they are I just
think I can do that far more effectively
because the most important weapon in
doing that is intelligence you got to
have the best intelligence in the world
and in order to have the best
intelligence in the world to know who
the terrorists are where they are and
what they're plotting you've got to have
the best cooperation you've ever had in
the world now to go back to your
question Nicky we're not getting the
best cooperation in the world today we
got a whole bunch of countries that that
pay a price for dealing with the United
States of America now I'm gonna change
that and I'm gonna put place a better
homeland security effort look at 95% of
our containers coming into this country
are not inspected today when you get on
an airplane your car your bag is is is
x-rayed but the cargo hold is index rate
do you feel safer this president the
last debate said well that would be a
big tax cap if we did that ladies and
gentlemen it's his tax plan he chose a
tax cut for the wealthiest Americans
over getting that equipment out into the
homeland as fast as possible we have
bridges and tunnels that aren't being
secured chemical plants nuclear plants
that aren't secured
they're overcrowded with their emergency
rooms if we had a disaster today could
they handle it
this president chose a tax cut over
homeland security wrong choice mr.
president that's an odd thing to say
since we've double a triple D homeland
security budget from ten to thirty
billion dollars listen we'll do
everything we can to protect the
homeland my opponents right we need good
intelligence it's also a curious thing
for him to say since right after 1993
voted to cut the intelligence budget by
7.5 billion dollars the best way to
defend America in this war in this world
we live in is to stay on the offense we
got to be pride 100 percent of the time
here at home and they got to be right
once and that's the that's the reality
and there's a lot of good people working
hard we're doing the best we possibly
can to share information that's why the
Patriot Act was important Patriot Act is
vital by the way it's a tool that law
enforcement now uses to be able to talk
between each other my opponent says he
hadn't changed the positions on it
nobody's for weakening it I don't think
my opponent has got the right right view
about the world to make us safe I really
don't first of all I don't think he can
succeed in Iraq and if Iraq were to fail
it'd be a haven for terrorists and
there'd be money in the world would be
much more dangerous I don't see how you
can win in Iraq if you don't believe we
should be there in the first place I
don't say you can lead troops if you say
it's the wrong war at the wrong place at
the wrong time I don't see how the
Iraqis are gonna have confidence in the
American president if all they hear is
that it was a mistake to be there in the
first place this war is a long long war
and it requires steadfast determination
and it requires a complete understanding
that we not only chased down al Qaeda
but we disrupt terrorist safe havens as
well as people who could provide the
terrorists with support I want to extend
for a minute senator and I want to I'm
curious about something you said you
said it's not when but if you think it's
inevitable because the sense of security
is a very basic thing with everybody in
this country worried about their kids
well the president and his experts have
told America that it's not a question of
if it's a question of when and I accept
what the president has said these
terrorists are serious they're deadly
and they know nothing except trying to
kill I understand that that's why I will
never stop at anything to hunt down and
kill the terrorists but you heard the
president just say to you that that that
we've added money folks the test is not
if you've added money the test is have
you done everything possible to make
America secure
he chose a tax cut for wealthy Americans
over the things that I listed to you mr.
president well we'll talk about the tax
cut for middle-class here in a minute
but yeah I'm worried I'm worried I'm
worried about our country and tell you
all I can tell you is everyday I know
that there's people working overtime
doing the very best they can and the
reason I'm worried is because there's a
vicious enemy that has an ideology of
hate and the way to defeat them long
term by the way is to spread freedom
Liberty can change habits and that's
what's happening in Afghanistan and Iraq
mr. president were gonna turn to
questions now in domestic policy and
we're gonna start with health issues and
the first question is for President Bush
and it's from John Horseman
why did you block the rien portation of
safer and inexpensive drugs from Canada
which would have cut 40 to 60 percent
off of the cost just want to make sure
they're safe when a drug comes in from
Canada I want to make sure it cures you
and doesn't kill you and that's why the
FDA and that's why the Surgeon General
are looking very carefully to make sure
it can be done in a safe way I've got an
obligation to make sure our government
does everything we can to protect you
and in what I my worry is and is that
you know it looks like it's from Canada
it might be from a third world we just
got to make sure before somebody thinks
they're buying a product that that it
works and that's that's that's why we're
doing what we're doing now it may very
well be here in December you hear me say
I think there's a safe way to do it
other ways to make sure drugs are
cheaper one is to speed up generic drugs
to the marketplace quicker
pharmaceuticals were using loopholes to
keep Brandon Brandon place and generics
are much less expensive than brand drugs
and we're doing just that
another is to pass is to get our seniors
to sign up to these drug discount cards
and they're working one to Blackmoor I
met here from Missouri the first time
she bought drugs with her drug discount
card she paid a dollar fourteen I think
it was for about $10 worth of drugs
these cards make that make us make makes
sense and in you in 2006 seniors are
going to get prescription drug coverage
for the first time in Medicare because I
went to Washington to fix problems
Medicare the issue of medication become
Medicare people don't want to touch it
for fear of getting hurt politically I
want to get something done I think our
seniors deserve a modern medical system
and in 2006 our seniors will get
prescription drug coverage thank you for
asking senator a minute and a half
John you heard the president just say
that he thought he might try to be for
it four years ago right here in this
floor
he was asked the same question can't
people be able to import drugs in Canada
you know what he said I think that makes
sense I think that's a good idea
four years ago now the president said
I'm not blocking that ladies and
gentlemen the president just didn't
level with you right now again he did
block it because we passed it in the
United States Senate we sent it over to
the house that you could import drugs we
took care of the safety issues we're not
talking about third-world drugs we're
talking about drugs made right here in
the United States of America that have
American brand names on them in American
bottles and were asking they'd be able
to allow you to get them the president
blocked it the president also took
Medicare which belongs to you and he
could have lowered the cost of Medicare
and lowered your taxes and lowered the
cost to seniors you know what he did he
made it illegal illegal for Medicare to
do what the VA does which is both
purchase drugs so that you can lower the
price and get him out to you lower he
put a hundred and thirty nine billion
dollars of windfall profit into the
pockets of the drug companies right out
of your pockets that's the difference
between us the president sides were the
power companies the oil companies the
drug companies and I'm fighting to let
you get those drugs from Canada and I'm
fighting to let Medicare survive I'm
fighting for the middle class that's the
difference if they're safe they're
coming I want to remind you that it
wasn't just my administration that made
the decision on safety President Clinton
did the same thing because we have an
obligation to protect you now he talks
about Medicare he's been in the United
States Senate 20 years showed me one
accomplishment toward Medicare that he
accomplished I've been in Washington DC
three and a half years and led the
Congress to reform Medicare so our
seniors have got a metrand modern health
care system that's what leadership is
all about actually mr. president 1997 we
fixed Medicare and I was one of the
people involved in it we not only fixed
Medicare and took it way out into the
future we did something that you don't
know how to do we balanced the budget
and we paid down the debt of our nation
for two years in a row
we created 23 million new jobs at the
same time and it's the president's
fiscal policies that have driven up the
biggest deficits in American history is
added more debt to the debt of the
United States and for years then all the
way from George Washington to Ronald
Reagan put together go figure
next question is for Senator Kerry and
this comes from Norma Jean Laurent
Senator Kerry you've stated your concern
for the rising cost of health care yet
you chose a vice presidential candidate
who has made millions of dollars
successfully suing medical professionals
how do you reconcile this with the
voters very easily John Edwards is the
author of the patient's Bill of Rights
he wanted to give people rights John
Edwards and I support tort reform we
both believe that as lawyers I'm a
lawyer too and I believe that we will be
able to get a fix that has eluded
everybody else because we know how to do
it it's in my health care proposal go to
John Kerry calm you can pull it off the
internet and you'll find a reform plan
now ladies and gentlemen important to
understand the president and his friends
try to make a big deal out of it is it a
problem yes it's a problem do we need to
fix it particularly for OGB wounds and
for for brain surgeons and others yes
but it's less than 1% of the total cost
of health care your premiums are going
up you've got you've gone up Missouri
about $3,500 you've gone up 64% you
you've seen co-pays go up deductibles go
up
everything's gone up five million people
have lost their health insurance under
this president he's done nothing about
it I have a plan I have a plan to lower
the cost of health care for you I have a
plan to cover all children I have a plan
to let you buy into the same health care
senators and congressmen give themselves
I have a plan that's going to allow
people 55 to 64 to buy into Medicare
early and I have a plan that will take
the catastrophic cases
of the system off your backs pay for it
out of a federal fund which lowers the
premiums for everybody in America makes
American business more competitive and
makes health care more affordable now
all of that can happen but I have to ask
you to do one thing join me in rolling
back the president's unaffordable tax
cut for people earning more than two
hundred thousand dollars a year that's
all 98 percent of America I'm giving you
a tax cut and I'm giving you health care
mr. president didn't half see where to
start here first the National Journal
named senator Kennedy the most liberal
senator of all and that's saying
something that bunch you might say that
took a lot of hard work the reason I
bring that up is because he's proposed
2.2 trillion dollars in new spending he
say he's gonna tax the rich to close the
tax gap he can't he's going to tax
everybody here to fund his programs
that's just reality and what are his
health programs first he says he's for
medical liability reform particularly
for OBGYNs there's a bill on the floor
of the United States Senate that he
could have showed up and voted for if
he's so much for it secondly he says
that medical liability costs only cause
1% increase as shows a lack of
understanding doctor's practice
defensive medicine because of all the
frivolous lawsuits that cost our
government twenty eight billion dollars
a year and finally he says he's gonna
have a novel health care plan you know
what it is the federal government is
gonna run it is the largest increase in
federal government health care ever in a
fist with his philosophy that's why I
told you about the award he won from the
National Journal
that's what liberals do they create
government sponsored healthcare maybe
you think that makes sense
I don't government sponsored healthcare
would lead to rationing it would ruin
the quality of health care in America
Senator Kerry we got several questions
along this line and I'm just curious if
you'd go further on what you talked
about with tort reform would you be
favoring
kaping Awards on pain and suffering
would you limit attorneys fees yes to
follow up on this for a minute I think
we should look at the punitive and we
should have some limitation but look
what's really important is the
president's just trying to scare
everybody here
we're throwing labels around I mean
compassionate conservative what does
that mean
cutting 500,000 kids from after-school
programs cutting 365 thousand kids from
health care running up the biggest
deficits in American history mr.
president you're batting o for two I
mean seriously labels don't mean
anything what means something is do you
have a plan and I want to talk about my
plan some more I hope we can right what
does matter is the plan he said he is
for your now for capping punitive
damages that's all you should have shown
up on the floor in the Senate and voted
for it then medical liability issues are
a problem a significant problem he's
been in the United States Senate for 20
years and he hadn't addressed it we
passed it out of the House of
Representatives guess where it's stuck
it's stuck in the Senate because the
trial lawyers won't act on it and he put
a trial lawyer on the ticket the next
question is for President Bush and it
comes from Matthew O'Brien mr. president
you have enjoyed a Republican majority
in the House and Senate for most of your
presidency in that time you've not
vetoed a single spending bill excluding
a hundred and twenty billion spent in
Iran and Afghan and Afghanistan there
has been 700 billion dollars spent and
not paid for by taxes please explain how
the spending you have approved and not
paid for is better for the American
people than the spending proposed by
your opponent right thank you for that
we have a deficit we have a deficit
because this country went into a
recession you might remember the stock
market started declined dramatically six
months before I came to office and then
the bubble of the 1990s popped and that
cost his revenue that cost his revenue
secondly we're at war and I'm going to
spend what it takes to win the war more
than just a hundred and twenty billion
for Iraq and Afghanistan we got to pay
our troops more we had
we've increased money for ammunition and
weapons and pay and homeland security
had just told this lady over here we
spent went from ten billion to thirty
billion dollars to protect the homeland
I think we have an obligation to spend
that kind of money and plus we cut taxes
for everybody everybody got tax relief
so if they get out of the recession I
think if you if you raise taxes during a
recession you head to depression I come
from the school of thought that says
when people have more money in their
pocket during tough economic times it
increases demand or investment small
businesses begin to grow and jobs are
added we found out today that over the
past 13 months we've added 1.9 million
new jobs in the last 13 months I
proposed a plan detailed budget that
shows us cutting the deficit in half by
five years and you're right I haven't
vetoed any spending bills because we've
worked together
non homeland non-defense discretionary
spending was rising at fifteen percent a
year when I got into office and today
it's less than one percent because we're
working together to try to bring this
deficit under control like you I'm
concerned about the deficit but I am NOT
gonna shortchange our troops in harm's
way and I'm not gonna run up taxes which
will cost this economy jobs
thank you for your carry minute let me
begin by saying that my health care plan
is not what the president described it
is not a government takeover you have
choice choose your doctor choose your
plan the government has nothing to do
with it in fact it doesn't ask you to do
anything you don't want to take it you
don't have to you like your high
premiums you keep them that's the way we
leave it now with respect to the deficit
the president was handed a five point
six trillion dollar surplus ladies and
gentlemen that's where he was when he
came into office we now have a two point
six trillion dollar deficit this is the
biggest turnaround in the history of the
country he's the first president in 72
years to lose jobs he talked about war
this is the first time the United States
of
America has ever had a tax cut when
we're at war Franklin Roosevelt Harry
Truman others knew how to lead they knew
how to ask the American people for the
right things one percent of America the
highest one percent of income earners in
America got eighty nine billion dollars
of tax cut last year one percent of
America got more than the 80 percent of
America that earned from $100,000 down
the president thinks it's more important
to fight for that top 1% than to fight
for fiscal responsibility and to fight
for you I want to put money in your
pocket I am I have four proposal for a
tax cut for all people earning less than
the $200,000 the only people affected my
plan are the top income earners of
America I both I heard you both say I
have heard you both say during the
campaign I just heard you say it that
you're gonna cut the deficit by a half
in four years but I didn't hear one
thing in the last three-and-a-half
minutes that would indicate how either
one of you do that look at the budget
one of us might make sure Congress
doesn't overspend but let me talk back
about where we've been the stock market
was declining six months prior to my
arrival it was the largest stock market
correction one of the largest in history
which foretold a recession because we
cut taxes on everybody
remember we ran up the child credit by a
thousand we reduced the marriage penalty
we created the 10% bracket everybody who
pays taxes got relief the recession was
one of the shortest in our nation's
history
senator Kerry 30 seconds after 9/11
after the recession had ended the
president had asked for another tax cut
and promised 5.6 million jobs would be
created
he lost 1.6 million ladies and gentlemen
and most of that tax cut went to the
wealthiest people in the country he came
and asked for a tax cut we wanted a tax
cut to kick the economy into gear you
know what he presented us with the
twenty five billion dollar giveaway to
the biggest corporations in America
including a two hundred and fifty four
million dollar refund check to Enron
wrong priorities you're my priority
Senator Kerry the next question will be
for you and it comes from James Varner
who I believe is in this section mr.
Varner need a microphone Thank You
senator Kerry would you be willing to
look directly into the camera and using
simple and unequivocal language give the
American people your solemn pledge not
to sign any legislation that will
increase the tax burden on families
earning less than $200,000 a year during
your first term absolutely yes
right into the camera yes I am NOT going
to raise taxes I have a tax cut and
here's my tax cut I raised the child
care credit by $1,000 for families to
help them be able to take care of their
kids I have a $4,000 tuition tax credit
that goes to parents and kids if they're
earning for themselves to be able to pay
for college and I lower the cost of
health care in the way that I describe
to you every part of my program I've
shown how I'm gonna pay for it and I've
gotten good people like former secretary
of the Treasury Bob Rubin for instance
who showed how to balance budgets and
give you a good economy to help me
crunch these numbers and make them work
I've even scaled back some of my
favorite programs already like the
childcare program I wanted to fund and
the national service program because the
president's deficit keeps growing and
I've said as a pledge I'm going to cut
the deficit in half in four years
now I'm gonna restore what we did in the
1990s ladies and gentlemen pay-as-you-go
we're gonna do it like you do it the
president broke the pay-as-you-go rules
somebody here asked the question about
why haven't you vetoed something it's a
good question if you care about why
don't you do it I think John McCain
called the energy bill the no lobbyists
Left Behind bill I mean you got to stand
up and fight somewhere folks I'm
pledging I will not raise taxes I'm
giving a tax cut to that people earning
less than $200,000 a year now for the
people earning more than $200,000 a year
you're gonna see a roll back to the
level we were at with Bill Clinton when
people made a lot of money
and looking around here at this group
here I suspect there are only three
people here we're going to be affected
the president me and Charlie I'm sorry
you two when he talks about being
fiscally conservative it's just not
credible if you look at his record in
the Senate he voted to break the
spending caps the spending caps over 200
times and here he says he's gonna be a
fiscal conservative all of a sudden it's
just not credible you cannot believe it
and of course he's gonna raise your
taxes
you see he's proposed 2.2 trillion
dollars of new spending and said he said
well how are you gonna pay for it he
said what he's gonna raise the taxes on
the rich that's what he said the top two
brackets that raises he says eight
hundred billion we say six hundred
billion we got battling green eyeshades
some word somewhere in between those
numbers and so there's a difference what
he's promised and what he can raise now
either he's gonna break all these
wonderful promises he's told you about
always gonna raise taxes and I suspect
given his record he's gonna raise taxes
no you can keep going good
Your Honor he looked at me like my clock
was up I I think that the way to grow
this economy is to keep taxes low does
have an energy plan is to have
litigation reform as I told you we just
got a report that said over the past 13
months we created 1.9 million new jobs
we're growing and so the fundamental
question of this campaign is who's gonna
keep the economy growing so people can
work that's the fundamental question I'm
gonna come back one more time to how
these numbers add up and how you can cut
that deficit in half in four years given
what you've both said first of all the
president's figures a 2.2 trillion just
aren't accurate those are the fuzzy math
figures put together by some group that
works for the campaign that's not the
number number two John McCain and I have
a proposal jointly for a commission that
closes corporate giveaway loopholes
we got 40 billion dollars going to
Bermuda we got all kinds of giveaways we
ought to be shutting those down and
third credible ladies and gentlemen in
1985 I was first Democrats to move to
balance the budget I voted for the
balanced budget 93 and 97 we did it we
did it
I'm sorry 30 seconds mr. president yeah
I mean he's got a record it's been there
for 20 years you can run but you can't
hide
he voted 98 times to raise taxes I mean
these aren't makeup figures and so
people gonna have to look at the record
look at the record of the man running
for the president they don't name him
the most liberal in the United States
Senate because he hadn't shown up to
many meetings they named him because of
his votes and it's reality it's just not
credible to say he's gonna keep taxes
down and balanced budgets mr. president
the next question is for you and it
comes from James Hub over here mr.
president how would you rate yourself as
an environmentalist what specifically
has your administration done to improve
the condition of our nation's air and
water supply off-road diesel engines we
have reached an agreement to reduce
pollution from off-road diesel engines
by 90% I've got a plan to increase the
wetlands by 3 million we've got an
aggressive brownfield program to
refurbish inner-city source spots two
useful pieces of property I proposed to
the United States Congress a clear skies
initiative to reduce sulfur dioxide
nitrogen oxide and mercury by 70% I was
fought for a very strong title in the
farm bill for the Conservation Reserve
Program to set aside millions of acres
of land for to help improve wildlife in
the habitats we proposed and passed a
healthy forest bill which was essential
to working with particularly in western
states to make sure that our forests
were protected what happens in those
forests because of lousy federal policy
is that they grow to be they they they
they are not they're not harvested
not taken care of and as a result
they're like tinderboxes and over the
last summers I've flown over there and
so this is a reasonable policy protect
old stands of trees and at the same time
make sure our forests aren't vulnerable
to the forest fires that have destroyed
acres after acres in the West we got a
good common sense policy now i'ma tell
you what I really think is gonna happen
over time as technology is going to
change the way we live for the good for
the environment that's why I proposed a
hydrogen automobile hydrogen generated
automobile we're spending a billion
dollars to come up with the technologies
to do that that's why I'm a big
proponent of clean coal technology to
make sure we can use coal but in a clean
way I guess you'd say I'm a good steward
of the land quality air is cleaner since
I've been the president fewer water
complaints since I've been the president
more land being restored since I've been
the president thank you for your
question senator Kerry a minute and a
half what a listen to that the the
president I don't think is living in a
world of reality with respect to the
environment now if you're a Red Sox fan
that's okay but if you're a president
it's not let me just say to you number
one don't throw the labels around labels
don't mean anything
I supported welfare reform I led the
fight to put a hundred thousand cops on
the streets of America I've been for
faith-based initiatives helping to
intervene the lives of young children
for years I was broke with my party in
1985 won the first three Democrats to
fight for a balanced budget when it was
heresy labels don't fit ladies and
gentlemen now when it comes to the issue
of the environment this is one of the
worst administration's in modern history
the clear skies bill that he just talked
about it's one of those Orwellian names
you pull out of the sky slap it onto
something like no child left behind but
you leave millions of children behind
here they're leaving the skies in the
environment behind if they just left the
Clean Air Act all alone the way it is
today no change the air would be cleaner
than it is if you pass the clear skies
Act we're going backwards
in fact his environmental enforcement
chief air quality person at the EPA
resigned in protest
/ what they're doing to what are called
the new source performance standards for
air quality they're going backwards on
the definition for wetlands they're
going backwards on the water quality
they pulled out of the global warming
declared it dead didn't even accept the
science I'm gonna be a president who
believes in science mr. president well
had we joined the Kyoto treaty which I
guess he's referring to it would have
cost America a lot of jobs is one of
these deals where in order to be popular
in the halls of Europe you sign a treaty
but I thought it would cost a lot of pee
I think there's a better way to do it
and I just told you the facts sir the
quality air is cleaner since I've been
the president United States and will
continue to spend money on research and
development because I truly believe
that's the way to get from where how we
live today to being able to live a
standard of living that were accustomed
to and being able to protect our
environment better the use of
technologies senator Kerry 30 seconds
the fact is that the Kyoto treaty was
flawed I was in Kyoto and I was part of
I know what happened but this president
didn't try to fix it he just declared a
dead ladies and gentlemen and we walked
away from the work of a hundred and
sixty nations over ten years
you wonder Nicky why it is that people
don't like us in some parts of the world
you just say hey we don't agree with you
goodbye
the president's done nothing to try to
fix it I will Senator Kerry the next
question is for you it involves jobs
which is a topic in the news today and
for the question we're gonna turn to
Jane Barrow senator Kerry how can the
u.s. be competitive in a manufacturing
given in manufacturing excuse me given
the wage necessary and comfortably
accepted for American workers to
maintain the standard of living that
they expect Jane there are a lot of ways
to be competitive and unfortunately
again I regret this administration has
not seized them and embraced them let me
give an example there's a tax loophole
right now if you're a company in st.
Louis work in trying to make jobs here
there's actually an incentive for you to
go away you you get more money you keep
more your taxes by going abroad I'm
gonna shut
loophole and I'm gonna give the tax
benefit to the companies that stay here
in America to help make them more
competitive secondly we're gonna create
a manufacturing jobs credit and a new
jobs credit for people to be able to
help hire and be more competitive here
in America
third what's really hurting American
business more than anything else is the
cost of health care now you didn't hear
any plan from the president cuz he
doesn't have a plan to lower the cost of
health care five million Americans have
lost their health care six hundred and
twenty thousand Missourians have no
health care at all ninety six thousand
Missourians have lost their health care
under President Bush I have a plan to
cover those folks and it's a plan that
lowers costs for everybody covers all
children and the way I pay for it
I'm not fiscally irresponsible is I roll
back the tax cut that this president so
fiercely wants to defend the one for him
and me and Charlie I think you ought to
get the break I want to lower your cost
of health care
I want a fully fund education No Child
Left Behind special needs education and
that's how we're gonna be more
competitive by making sure our kids are
graduating from school and college China
and India are graduating more graduates
in technology and science than we are
we've got to create the products of the
future
that's why I have a plan for energy
independence within 10 years and we're
gonna put our laboratories and our
colleges and universities to work and
we're gonna get the great
entrepreneurial spirit of this country
and we're gonna free ourselves from this
dependency on Mideast oil that's how you
create jobs and become competitive
mr. president bit and a half let me
start with how to control the cost of
healthcare medical liability reform for
starters which he's opposed secondly
allow small businesses to pull together
so they can share risk and buy insurance
at the same discounts big businesses get
to do thirdly spread what's called
health savings accounts it's good for
small businesses good for owners you own
your own account you can save tax-free
you get a credit traffic plan to help
you own it this is different from saying
okay let me and sent you to go into
government you talking about his plan to
keep jobs here you know he calls it an
outsourcing to keep it stop outsourcing
Robert Rubin looked at his plan instead
it won't work the best way to keep jobs
here in America is one have an energy
plan I proposed one of the Congress two
years ago encourages conservation
Courage's technology to explore for
environmentally friendly ways for coal
and use coal and gas it encourages the
use of renewables like ethanol and
biodiesel it's stuck in the Senate he
and his running mate didn't show up to
vote when they could have got it going
in the Senate less regulations if we
want jobs here legal reform if we want
jobs here and we've got to keep taxes
low now he says he's only going to tax
the rich you realize 900,000 small
businesses will be taxed under his plan
because most small businesses are
subchapter S corp or limited
partnerships and they pay tax at the
individual income tax level and so when
you running up to taxes like that your
tax and job creators and that's not how
you keep jobs here Saturday I want to
extend for a minute you talk about tax
credits to stop outsourcing but when you
have IBM documents that I saw recently
where you can hire a programmer for $12
in China 56 dollars an hour here tax
credits won't cut is matter you can't
stop all outsourcing charlie I've never
promised that I'm not going to because
that would be pandering you can't but
what you can do is create a fair playing
field and that's what I'm talking about
but let me just address what the
president just said ladies and gentlemen
that's just not true what he said The
Wall Street Journal said 96% of small
businesses are not affected at all by my
plan and you know why he gets that count
the president got 84 dollars from a
timber company that he owns and he's
counted as a small business Dick
Cheney's counted as a small business
that's how they do things that's just
not right I own a timber company
that's news to me need some wood most
small businesses are subchapter S corp
s-- they just are i met grant Milliron
mansfield ohio he's creating jobs most
of most small businesses 70% of the new
jobs in America created by small
business his taxes are going up when you
run up the top two brackets it's a fact
President Bush the next question is for
you and it comes from Rob Fowler who I
believe is over in this area
President Bush 45 days after excuse me
45 days after 9/11 Congress passed the
Patriot Act which takes away checks on
law enforcement it weakens American
citizens rights and freedoms especially
force amendment rights with expansions
of the Patriot and Patriot to my
questions to you is why are my rights
being watered down and my citizens
around me and whether specific
justifications for these reforms I
appreciate that I really don't think
your rights are being watered down
matter of fact I wouldn't support it if
I thought that every action being taken
against terrorists requires court order
require scrutiny as a matter of fact the
tool is now given to the terrorist
fighters are the same tools that we have
been using against drug dealers and
white-collar criminals so I really don't
think so I hope you don't think that I
mean III because I think whoever's the
president must guard your liberties must
not erode your rights in America the
Patriot Act is necessary for example
because parts of the FBI couldn't talk
to each other intelligence gathering and
the law enforcement arms of the FBI just
couldn't share intelligence under the
old law and that didn't make any sense
our law enforcement must have every tool
necessary to find and disrupt terrorists
at home and abroad before they hurt us
again that's the task of the
first century so I don't think the Terra
the Patriot Act of bridge is your rights
at all
and and I know it's necessary I can
remember being up upstate New York
talking to FBI agents that helped bust
the Lackawanna cell up there and they
told me they could not have performed
their duty the duty we all expect them
if they did not have the ability to
communicate with each other under the
Patriot Act
senator Kerry minute
former governor Rosco as chairman of the
Republican Party said he thought that
the Patriot Act has to be changed and
fixed Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner he's
the the chairman of the House Judiciary
Committee as said over his dead body
before it gets renewed without being
thoroughly rechecked
whole bunch of folks in America
concerned about way the Patriot Act has
been applied in fact the Inspector
General of the Justice Department found
that John Ashcroft had twice applied it
in ways that were inappropriate people's
rights have been abused I met a man who
spent eight months in prison wasn't even
allowed to call his lawyer wasn't
allowed to get finally Senator Dick
Durbin of Illinois intervened and was
able to get him out this is in our
country folks the United States of
America they've got sneak and peek
searches that are allowed they've got
people allowed to go into churches now
and political meetings without any
showing of potential criminal activity
or otherwise now I voted for the Patriot
Act 99 United States senators voted for
it and the president's been very busy
running around the country using what I
just described to you as a reason to say
I'm wishy-washy that I'm the flip
flopper now that's not a flip-flop I
believe in the Patriot Act
we need the things in it that coordinate
the FBI and the CIA we need to be
stronger on terrorism but you know what
we also need to do as Americans is never
let the terrorists change the
constitution in the United States in a
way that disadvantages our rights
Senator Kerry the next question is for
you and it comes from Elizabeth long
Senator Kerry thousands of people have
already been cured or treated by the use
of adult stem cells or umbilical cord
stem cells however no one has been cured
by using embryonic stem cells wouldn't
it be wise to use stem cells obtained
without the destruction of an embryo you
know Elizabeth I really respect your the
feeling that's in your question I
understand it you know I I know the
morality that's prompting that question
and I respect it enormously but like
Nancy Reagan and so many other people
you know I was at at a forum with
Michael J Fox the other day in New
Hampshire who's suffering from
Parkinson's and and he wants us to do
stem-cell embryonic stem-cell and this
fellow stood up and he was quivering his
whole body was was was shaking from the
nerve disease the muscular disease that
he had and and he said to me and to the
whole hall he said you know don't don't
take away my hope because my hope is
what keeps me going Chris Reeve is a
friend of mine Chris Reeve exercises
every single day to keep those muscles
alive for the day when he believes he
can walk again and I want him to walk
again I think we could save lives now I
think we can do ethically guided
embryonic stem-cell research we have a
hundred thousand two hundred thousand
embryos that are frozen in nitrogen
today from fertility clinics these
weren't taken from a bortion or
something like that they're from a
fertility clinic and they're either
going to be destroyed or left frozen and
I believe if we have the option which
scientists tell us we do of curing
Parkinson's curing diabetes curing a you
know some kind of a you know paraplegic
or quadriplegic or you know a spinal
cord injury anything
that's the nature of the human spirit I
think it is respecting life
to reach for that cure I think it is
respecting life to do it in an ethical
way and the president's chosen the
policy that makes it impossible for our
scientists to do that I want the future
and I think we have to grab it mr.
president and a half embryonic stem cell
research requires the destruction of
life to create a stem cell I'm the first
president ever to allow funding federal
funding for embryonic stem cell research
I did so because I had to hope that
we'll discover a cures from from the
stem cells from the research derived but
I think I think we got to be very
careful in balancing the ethics in the
science and so I've made the decision we
wouldn't spend any more money beyond the
70 lines 22 of which are now in action
because science is important but so is
ethics those balancing life to destroy
life to save life as it's one of the
real ethical dilemmas that we face
there's going to be hundreds of
experiments off to 22 lines that now
exist that are active and hopefully we
find a cure but as well we need to
continue to pursue adult stem cell
research I help double the NIH budget to
28 billion of dollars a year to find
cures and the approach I took is one
that I I think is a balance the
necessary approach to balance science
and and the in the concerns for life
senator thirty Seconds listen well you
talk about walking a waffle line he says
he's allowed it which means he's going
to allow the destruction of life up to a
certain amount and then he isn't going
to allow it I don't know how you draw
that line but let me tell you
point-blank the lines of stem cells that
he's made available every scientist the
country will tell you not adequate
because they're contaminated by mouse
cells and because there aren't 60 or 70
they're only a
11 to 20 now and there aren't enough to
be able to do the research because
they're contaminated we've got to open
up the possibilities of this research
and when I am president I'm gonna do it
better because we have to mr. president
and my decision those stem cell lines
already existed the embryo had already
been destroyed prior to my decision I
had to make the decision do we destroy
more life do we continue to destroy life
I made the decision to balance science
and ethics mr. president the next
question is for you and it comes from
Jonathan Michaelson mr. president if
there were vacancy in the Supreme Court
and you had the opportunity to fill that
position today who would you choose and
why I'm not telling
I really don't have haven't picked
anybody yet plus I'm one of them all
voting for me I would pick somebody who
would not allow their personal opinion
to get in the way of the law I would
pick somebody who would strictly
interpret the Constitution of the United
States let me give you a couple of
examples I guess of the kind of person I
wouldn't pick I wouldn't pick a judge
who said that the pledged allegiance
couldn't be said in the school because
it had the words under God in it I think
that's an example of a judge allowing
personal opinion to enter into the
decision-making process as opposed to
strict interpretation of the
Constitution another example would be
the Dred Scott case which is where
judges years ago said that the
Constitution allowed slavery because of
personal property rights that's a
personal opinion that's not what the
Constitution says Constitution of the
United States says we're all you know it
doesn't say that doesn't speak to the
Equality of America and so I would pick
people that would be strict
constructionists we got plenty of
lawmakers in Washington DC legislators
make law judges interpret the
Constitution and I suspect one of us
will have a pick at the end of next year
next four years
and that's the kind of judge I'm gonna
put on there no litmus test except for
who how they interpret the Constitution
thank you senator Kerry thank you
Charlie a few years ago when he came to
office the president said these are his
words what we need are some good
conservative judges on the courts and he
said also that his two favorite justices
of Justice Scalia and Justice Thomas so
you get a pretty good sense
of where he's heading if he were to
appoint somebody now here's what I
believe I don't believe we need a good
conservative judge and I don't believe
we need a good liberal judge I don't
believe we need a good judge of that
kind of definition on either side I
subscribe to the justice Potter Stewart
standard he was justice on the Supreme
Court of the United States and he said
the mark of a good judge good justice is
that when you're reading their decision
their opinion you can't tell if it's
written by a man or woman a liberal or
conservative a Muslim a Jew or a
Christian you just know you're reading a
good judicial decision what I want to
find if I am privileged to have the
opportunity to do it and the Supreme
Court of the United States is at stake
in this race ladies and gentlemen the
future of things that matter to you in
terms of civil rights what kind of
Justice Department you'll have whether
will enforce the law will we have equal
opportunity will women's rights be
protected will we have equal pay for
women which is going backwards will a
woman's right to choose be protected
these are constitutional rights and I
want to make sure we have judges who
interpret the Constitution of the United
States according to the law going to go
to the final two questions now and the
first one will be for senator Kerry and
this comes from Sarah degenhardt
Senator Kerry
suppose you were speaking with a voter
who believed abortion is murder and the
voter asked for reassurance that his or
her tax dollars would not go to support
abortion what would you say to that
person I would say to that person
exactly what I will say to you right now
first of all I cannot tell you how
deeply I respect the belief about life
and when it begins I'm a Catholic raised
a Catholic I was an altar boy religion
has been a huge part of my life helped
lead me through a war leads me today but
I can't take what is an article of faith
for me and legislative for someone who
doesn't share that article of faith
whether they be agnostic atheist Jew
Protestant whatever I can't do that but
I can counsel people I can talk
reasonably about life and about
responsibility I can talk to people as
my wife to raiser does about making
other choices and about abstinence and
about all these other things that we
ought to do as a responsible society but
as allegis as a president I have to
represent all the people in the nation
and I have to make that judgment now I
believe that that that you can take that
position and not be pro-abortion but you
have to afford people their
constitutional rights and that means
being smart about allowing people to be
fully educated to know what their
options are in life and making certain
that you don't deny a poor person the
right to be able to have whatever the
Constitution affords them if they can't
afford it otherwise that's why I think
it's important that's why I think it's
important for the United States for
instance not to have this rigid
ideological restriction on helping
families around the world to be able to
make a smart decision about family
planning
you'll help prevent AIDS you'll help
prevent unwanted children unwanted
pregnancies you'll actually do a bed
job I think of passing on the moral
responsibility that is expressed in your
question and I truly respect it mr.
president min and a half trying to
decipher that my answer is we're not
going to spend federal taxpayers money
on abortion and I said there's an issue
that divides America but certainly
reasonable people can agree on how to
reduce abortions in America I signed the
partial birth of the ban on partial
birth abortion it's a brutal practice
it's one way to help reduce abortions my
opponent voted against the ban I think
there ought to be parental notification
of laws he's against him
I signed a bill called the unborn
victims of violence Act in other words
if you're a mom and you're pregnant you
get killed the murderer gets tried for
two cases not just one my opponent was
against that these are reasonable ways
to help promote a culture of life in
America I think it is a worthy goal in
America to have every child protected by
law and welcomed in life I also think we
ought to continue to have good adoption
law as an alternative to abortion and we
need to promote maternity group homes
which my administration has done culture
of life is really important for a
country to have it's going to be a
hospitable Society thank you follow-up
30 seconds well again the president just
said categorically my opponents against
this my opponents against that you know
it's just not that simple no I'm not I'm
against the partial-birth abortion but
you've got to have an exception for the
life of the mother and the health of the
mother under the strictest test of
bodily injury to the mother secondly
with respect to parental notification
I'm not gonna require a 16 or 17
year-old kid who's been raped by her
father and who's pregnant to have to
notify her father so you got to have a
judicial intervention and because they
didn't have a judicial intervention
where she
go somewhere and get help I voted
against it it's never quite as simple as
the president wants you to believe and
30 seconds mr. president it's pretty
simple when they say are you for a ban
on partial-birth abortion yes or no and
he was given a chance to vote and he
voted no and that's just the way it is
that's a vote it came right up it's
clear for everybody to see and as I said
you can run but you can't hide
the reality and the final question of
the evening will be addressed to
President Bush and it will come from
Linda Grable Linda grapples over here I
got picked up myself
President Bush during the last four
years you have made thousands of
decisions that have affected millions of
lives
please give three instances in which you
came to realize you had made a wrong
decision and what you did to Creek to
correct it thank you I have made a lot
of decisions and some of them little
like appointments the board's you've
never heard of and some of them big in a
war there's a lot of there's a lot of
tactical decisions that historians will
look back and say you shouldn't have
done that should have made that decision
and I'll take responsibility for him I'm
human
but on the big questions about whether
or not we should have gone into
Afghanistan the big question about
whether we should have removed somebody
in Iraq I'll stand by those decisions
because I think they're right it's
really what you're what when they ask
about the mistakes that's what they're
talking about they're trying to say did
you make a mistake going into Iraq and
the answer is absolutely not it's a
right decision the doleful report
confirmed that decision today because
what Saddam Hussein was doing was trying
to get rid of sanctions
so he could reconstitute a weapons
program and the biggest threat facing
America is terrorists with weapons of
mass destruction we knew he hated us we
knew he'd been invaded other countries
we knew he tortured his own people on
the tax cut it's a big decision I did
the right decision our recession was one
of the shallowest in modern history now
you asked what mistakes I made some
mistakes in appointing people but I'm
not going to name them I don't want to
hurt their feelings on national TV but
history will look back and I'm fully
prepared to accept any mistakes at
history judges to my administration
because the president makes the
decisions the president has to take the
responsibility senator kerrey minute and
a half
I believe the president made a huge
mistake
a catastrophic mistake not to live up to
his own standard which was build a true
global coalition give the inspectors
time to finish their job and go through
the UN process to its end
and go to war as a last resort I ask
each of you just to look into your
hearts look into your guts gut check
time was this really gonna war as a last
resort president rushed our nation to
war without a plan to win the peace and
simple things weren't done that's why
senator lugar says incompetent in the
delivery of services that's why senator
hagel republican says you know beyond
pitiful beyond embarrassing in the zone
of dangerous we didn't guard 850,000
tons of ammo that ammo is now being used
against our kids 10,000 out of 12,000
Humvees aren't armored I visited some of
those kids with no limbs today because
they didn't have the armor in those
vehicles they didn't have the right body
armor I've met parents who on the
internet gotten the armor to send their
kids there's no bigger judgment for a
president the United States than how you
takin a shinto war and you can't say
because Saddam might have done it ten
years from now that's a reason that's an
excuse mr. president complains about the
fact our troops don't have adequate
equipment yet he voted against the 87
billion dollar supplemental I sent to
the Congress and then issued one of the
most amazing quotes in political history
I actually did vote for the 87 billion
dollars by four before I voted against
it
Saddam Hussein was a risk to our country
ma'am and he was a risk that and this is
where we just have a difference of
opinions the truth of the matter is if
you listen carefully Saddam would still
be in power if he were the president
United States and the world would be a
lot better off and Senator Kerry 30
seconds not necessarily being power but
here's what I'll say about the 87th day
and I made a mistake in the way I talked
about it he made a mistake in invading
Iraq which is a worse decision now I
voted the way I voted because I saw that
he had the policy wrong and I wanted
accountability I didn't want to give a
slush fund to Halliburton I also thought
the wealthiest people in America ought
to pay for it ladies and gentlemen he
wants your kids to pay for it I wanted
us to pay for it since we're at war I
don't think that's a bad decision
that's gonna conclude the questioning
we're gonna go now to closing statements
two minutes from each candidate and the
first closing statement goes to Senator
Kerry I believe that was the agreement
Thank You charlie thank you and thank
you all thank you all of you for taking
part thanks for your questions tonight
very very much
obviously the president and I both have
very strong convictions I respect him
for that but we have a very different
view about how to make America stronger
and safer
I will never cede the authority of our
country or our security to any other
nation I'll never give a veto over
American security to any other entity
not a nation not a country not an
institution but I know as I think you do
that our country is strongest when we
lead the world when we lead strong
alliances and that's the way eyes and
our and Reagan and Kennedy and others
did it we are not doing that today we
need to I have a plan that will help us
go out and kill and find the terrorists
and I will not stop in our effort to
hunt down and kill the terrorists but I
also have a better plan how we're gonna
deal with Iraq training the Iraqi forces
more rapidly getting our allies back to
the table with a fresh start with new
credibility with a president whose
judgment the rest of the world trusts in
addition to that I believe we have a
crisis here at home the crisis of the
middle class that is increasingly
squeezed health care costs going up I
have a plan to provide health care to
all Americans I have a plan to provide
for our schools so we keep the standards
but we help our teachers teach and
elevate our schools by funding No Child
Left Behind I have a plan to protect the
environment so that we leave this place
in better shape to our children than we
were handed it by our parents that's the
test
I believe America's best days are ahead
of us I'm an optimist but we have to
make the right choices to be fiscally
responsible and to create the new jobs
of the future we can do this and I ask
you for the privilege of leading our
nation to be stronger at home and
respected again in the world Thank You
senator and a closing statement from
President Bush certainly thanks thank
you all very much enjoyable
right contest for the presidency is
about the future who can lead who can
get things done we've been through a lot
together as a country been through a
recession corporate scandals war and yet
think about where we are
I had one point nine million new jobs
for the past 13 months the farm income
in America is high small businesses are
flourishing home ownership rate is at an
all-time high in America we're on the
move tonight I had a chance to discuss
with you what to do to keep this economy
going keep the taxes low don't increase
the scope at the federal government keep
regulations down legal reform a health
care policy that does not empower the
federal government but empowers
individuals in an energy plan that'll
help us become less dependent on foreign
sources of energy and abroad we're at
war and it requires a president who is
steadfast and strong and determined I
vowed to the American people after that
fateful day of September the 11th that
we would not rest nor tire until we're
safe the 9/11 Commission put out a
report that it said America is safer but
not yet safe there's more work to be
done we'll stay on the hunt alone
al-qaida will deny sanctuary to these
terrorists we'll make sure they do not
end up with weapons of mass destruction
it's a great nexus a great threat to our
country is that these haters end up with
weapons of mass destruction but our
long-term security depends on our deep
faith in Liberty and we'll continue to
promote freedom around the world freedom
is on the march tomorrow Afghanistan
will be voting for a president in Iraq
II will be having free elections in a
free society will make this world more
peaceful
god bless mr. president Senator Kerry
that concludes tonight's debate I want
to give you a reminder that the third
and final debate on issues of domestic
policy will be held
Wednesday October 13th at Arizona State
University in Tempe Arizona
hosted by Bob Schieffer of CBS News I
want to thank President Bush and Senator
Kerry for tonight I want to thank the
citizens of the st. Louis area who asked
the questions who gave so willingly of
their time and who took their
responsibilities very seriously thank
you also to everyone at Washington
I want to thank everyone at Washington
University in st. Louis for being such
gracious hosts I'm Charles Gibson from
ABC News from st. Louis good night
[Applause]
as we continue to look at the scene
inside the Fieldhouse on the campus of
Washington University in st. Louis we
want to get your reaction who do you
think won give us a call the area code
is two zero two six two eight zero two
zero five if you support President Bush
and two zero two seven three seven zero
zero zero two if you support Senator
John Kerry again a reminder the area
code is two zero to give us a call stay
on the line and tell us why you think
either the President or Senator Kerry
won this debate the second of three
presidential debates the only town hall
meeting format that ran about 95 96
minutes and by the way the debate will
rear again overnight in our schedule
here on c-span we'll continue to watch
the room for a minute or two and then
come back and get your phone calls
Senator Kerry and President Bush
continue to greet those 150 participants
of the town hall meeting format we want
to find out what you think who do you
think won this debate
tell us why we'll begin with a
Greensboro North Carolina supporter of
Senator Kerry go ahead well Senator
Kerry's execution was just was perfect
he actually answered the questions you
know President Bush seems to have this
very roundabout way of answering the
questions and more times not they don't
get answered his statements on the
environment were perfect and all of us
here at Greenville North Carolina just
really support Kerry all the way thank
you for the call next step we'll hear
from Atlanta Georgia supporter of the
president who do you think won and why
yes I feel the President did an
outstanding job resonating with the
people his comment about the timber
company actually caused a room full of
people who are up then laughter here he
just really seems to resonate with a
common person a lot better than a
senator Kerry does and I think that
really came out tonight in tonight's
debate thanks for the call Portland
Oregon you're next good evening hi I
think that John Kerry won hands down
GW had the same old sorry thing to say
about everything which by now the whole
country should know are just not true
and John Kerry actually had reasonable
solutions to the problems that face all
of us now thank you thank you next up a
call from Oklahoma supporter of
President Bush who do you think won the
race the debate tonight I think
President Bush did and you know he was
very direct and to-the-point on all his
questions and like Kerry he seemed to be
variant big and you know to avoid the
direct question on things and one thing
that concerns me about him is you know
even in the last debate he has a lot of
hand motion he seems real jumpy a person
with a lot of hand motion to me seems
like a person that you know is you know
too quick to decisions don't put a lot
of thought and things they you know a
nervous twitch it eat I per person I
think President Bush just is does an
excellent job he's real calm and cool
through out both the debates I've seen
thank you Oklahoma next step is Omaha
Nebraska good evening
hi undecided voter going into the first
debate undecided voter going into the
second debate definitely John Kerry now
why I just think he has a much better
command of what needs to be done and
what has been done or what hasn't been
done he just has a better grasp of
everything from the domestic issues to
the foreign affairs caller was there a
moment in either the first debate in
Miami or tonight's debate in st. Louis
that you take away from this this form
or these forms I don't know that there
was a moment there was a time where
there was a couple of questions where it
seemed like President Bush just didn't
want to answer the question like the
three things that he had done wrong
he didn't even list one and you know
anybody that with any common sense knows
that at some point in time you're going
to do something wrong and the best way
to approach it is to admit it and then
move on okay thanks for the call from
Omaha next up Saginaw Michigan good
evening yeah who won the debate tonight
John Kerry all the way why do you say
that he was very blunt on all his
questions and all his answers I just
it's obvious you can tell by all the
callers that are that are calling in
he's just his questions are much more
clear than President Bush did these two
debates or the debate on Tuesday in
Cleveland affect your thinking at all
about this race I had my mind set up as
soon as I heard Kerry about Kerry
running and it's just obvious thank you
next up is Columbus Ohio supporter of
President Bush what did you think
tonight well I thought if we had Kerry
we were going to have four years of a
lawyer I could not understand his
answers I think he is very naive as far
as the rest of the world is concerned I
don't know that anybody can bring France
and Germany if they don't want to be
brought into it and he said
he's going to do a better job but how is
he going to do it how does he think he
can go in and solve the problems in Iraq
simply by talking and a lot of other
people coming into Alliance that are not
really interested or they have their own
interest
I think Bush was very clear I think he I
think we know where he stands I have no
idea about Kerry it does seem like it's
all lawyer
Radek thank you Derry New Hampshire good
evening to you go ahead you're on the
air oh definitely Kerry because Bush for
some reason he liked you wanted to say
that we needed a senator or commuted a
judge rather that wasn't gonna be by his
opinion however he was going against the
stem-cell research based on his own
personal opinion that's how it worked
Columbus Ohio you're next go ahead I
think that President Bush it is a great
example of a public servant and I fully
support someone key to what he believes
is such a strong and convincing way
caller was there a moment or a line
tonight that you will remember from this
debate will go on to offer an Alabama
good evening to you yes we had four
years of the same old same old and I
think it's time for a fresh outlook on
things and I think Kerry has won this
hands down and I'm hope he's our new
president let me ask you the same
question I asked the previous caller was
there a moment or a line from either
candidate tonight that you will take
away from this evenings debate not one I
could endpoint Kerry just one Kerry just
had more answers and was more
comfortable with the debate thank you
next up is Dale Wisconsin go ahead well
I believe that Bush won because first
off he has proven himself carry under
Senate has what has he proven himself to
do
he hasn't done anything for anyone and
now all of a sudden he says he can do
all this but with no proof he's got
plans that he's yet to prove Bush has
already in implemented plans that he is
going to do I believe Bush is a man of
his word he's proven it in the four
years he's been here he can do something
all he wants to do is go down to write
his horses whether he's president or not
okay Thank You caller by the way Ralph
Nader will be joining us tomorrow
morning on c-span Washington Journal
President Bush continues on the campaign
trail he will be in Minnesota tomorrow
and Senator Kerry will be in Elyria Ohio
and then on to Fort Lauderdale we'll
have live coverage of candidate events
during our coverage on c-span Saturday
will continue with your phone calls
tonight reaction to the debate tell us
who you think won and why Wilma Arkansas
go ahead hi I think Senator Kerry did a
very good job when he spoke he was on
point with all of his questions and the
lady that mentioned about him using hand
lotion that's just a form of a way to
communicate herself and I just think
everything that he's saying that he's
hitting on points on his plan with
everything that he talks about I think
he's doing a good job out there and I
watched both of the days and each time
he had the one that hands down Thank You
Farmington New Mexico you're next yes I
heard senator Kerry say that he had a
plan over 20 times but when the
questions always came down he never had
the details and statistics to back it up
he always refers to his website like
someone else is concocting his plans
form and another deal was where he him
and and senator Edwards was stood before
all of the country at one of the
caucuses and said that they are for
abortion it was one of the litmus tests
required of all the candidates running
for the Democrat Party to do
then he gets wishy-washy when it's time
to answer the question when is he
against saving life or or destroying it
so that's my thank you Thank You caller
the US House of Representatives is in
session at this hour on c-span but those
of you here on c-span too will continue
with your phone calls for another four
or five minutes and then we will show
you again tonight's debate and follow
that with another hour of your phone
calls and also let you listen into some
of the spin taking place inside the
Frances gymnasium which is adjacent to
the Fieldhouse on the campus of
Washington University in st. Louis next
up a call from Destin Florida good
evening good evening how are you tonight
I just wanted to say that I think
Senator Kerry did win this debate and
I'm very confident that he will win the
presidential election why do you think
he won the debate I think he explains
himself very well Bush Bush has a very
hard time in explaining what he would
like to say and it doesn't come across
as a very strong candidate the past four
years have been very troublesome for my
family and for many families in the
United States and I'm hoping that Kerry
can go in and fix some of those problems
thank you wind 'red Georgia supporter of
President Bush who do you think won
tonight well I think the president won
tonight I believe he was clear and he
was forthright and he was honest
senator Kerry still has a problem with
what he's standing up for what he has
done it's easy to talk about what you
want to do but you cannot go back and
prove that you have done those things
the president has a record he stood on
his record he said he takes
responsibility for it mr. Kerry has
never taken responsibility for anything
Parma Indiana good evening
yeah I think mr. Kerry won tonight I
think he's very thorough in his answers
that he gave and he actually has a lot
of facts to back it up I think the
president went on quoting a lot of
rhetoric like the the Senators are
meeting up with you know Senate meetings
and so forth so
I said I think the victor is clear to
send it to Kari
Thank You caller normal Illinois is our
next caller good evening hi
I totally thank Terry one his arguments
are much better than Bush and I believe
that he is so much smarter everything
that he believes all my friends believe
I didn't totally for Kerry anyone
arguments thank you next up is a caller
from the Yakima Washington good evening
you're on the air caller go ahead
Cincinnati Ohio you're next hi I
definitely think that George Bush won I
think that Senator Kerry attacked him a
lot over the war which is something that
we definitely need to do but the worst
statement that he made that really I
guess made my bit was when he said that
sixteen-year-old girl should not have to
ask her father she can have an abortion
I don't think that's the reference that
President Bush was making when they made
that law
thank you calling President Bush has
left the field house at Washington
University Senator Kerry continues to
shake hands and as you can see have his
photograph taken with some of those who
are were in attendance for tonight's
town-hall meeting format by the way
there will be a third and final debate
in Mesa Arizona next Wednesday evening
you can watch it live on the c-span
networks Herrin Illinois is our next
caller who won a debate I think won the
debate a gentleman stood up and asked
President Bush about his white rights
being washed away right by the Patriot
Act I believe and President Bush told
him that he didn't think he was
gentlemen asked a question and the
president told him how he was supposed
to be feeling Thank You caller Sparks
Nevada you're next yeah my name is James
Howard Bradshaw and I think President
Bush is a waffle has been a wonderful
president
when they asked him about the mistakes
that he made they were once on September
11 everybody believed in President Bush
you can't second
yes Kerry he does all the second
guessing second guessing I believed in
President Bush then I believed in him
now
obviously President Bush thank you
Morgantown West Virginia go ahead please
hi I think John Kerry won the debate
tonight hands down a fly illustrates his
positions quite clearly I thought the
most interesting line of the debate
tonight was George Bush saying he had a
respect for all life when he's
responsible for a thousand Americans
dead and tens of thousands of Iraqi
civilians so I thought that was very
interesting I I thought it was a good
performance by Kerry all around thanks
for the call Ann Arbor Michigan you're
next who won the debate Ann Arbor you
with us
good evening caller you're on c-span go
ahead weren't you funny from yes who do
you think won the debate tonight John
Kerry why is that I basically started
out you know watching that both debates
and wanted to vote against bush and
ultimately think that John Kerry's won
me over in terms of voting for him
because every time President Bush is
questioned on a hard topic he really
reverts to emotion and each time John
Kerry gets the same topic he can rely on
facts and ultimately can convince